' [Name] Officium Beatae Mariae Virginis in Sabbato
' A liturgical office for the Blessed Virgin Mary on Saturday.

' [Rank] Sanctae Mariae Sabbato;;Feria;;2;;vide C10
' The rank of this liturgical office is Sanctae Mariae Sabbato, which is for Saturdays, and it is a ferial office. The number 2 and the reference to C10 indicate additional information about the office.

' [Rule] vide C10
' The rule for this liturgical office is to be found in C10.

' [Capitulum Vespera]
' !Sir 24:14
' The capitulum for Vespers is from Sirach 24:14.
' v. From the beginning, and before the world, was I created, and unto the world to come I shall not cease to be, and in the holy dwelling place I have ministered before him.
' The verse from Sirach emphasizes the eternal nature of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
' $Deo gratias.
' The Latin phrase "Deo gratias" means "Thanks be to God."

' [Hymnus Vespera]
' !The first verse of the following hymn is said genuflecting.
' A note for the reader to genuflect during the first verse of the hymn.

' v. Ave, star of ocean,
' The hymn begins by addressing the Blessed Virgin Mary as the "star of ocean."
' Child divine who barest,
' The hymn acknowledges Mary as the mother of the divine child.
' Mother, ever-Virgin,
' The hymn emphasizes Mary's perpetual virginity.
' Heaven's portal fairest.
' The hymn describes Mary as the most beautiful gateway to heaven.

' The rest of the hymn is a prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary, asking for her intercession and blessings.

' [Ant 1]
' Blessed Mother and inviolate Maiden! * Glorious Queen of the world! Plead for us with the Lord!
' The antiphon addresses Mary as the blessed mother and inviolate maiden, and as the glorious queen of the world, asking for her intercession with the Lord.

' [Oratio]
' Grant, we beseech thee, O Lord God, unto all thy servants, that they may remain continually in the enjoyment of soundness both of mind and body, and by the glorious intercession of the Blessed Mary, always a Virgin, may be delivered from present sadness, and enter into the joy of thine eternal gladness.
' $Per Dominum
' The prayer asks for God's blessings on all His servants, for soundness of mind and body, and for deliverance from present sadness through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The prayer ends with the Latin phrase "Per Dominum," which means "Through the Lord."

' [Invit]
' Hail Mary, full of grace, * The Lord is with thee.
' The invitatory antiphon is a greeting to the Blessed Virgin Mary, acknowledging her fullness of grace and the presence of the Lord with her.

' [Benedictio]
' The prayers and merits of blessed Mary ever Virgin and all the Saints bring us to the kingdom of heaven. Amen.
' Lord, please bless me.
' May the Virgin Mary with her Loving Offspring bless us. Amen.
' May the Virgin of virgins, intercede for us to the Lord. Amen.
' Through the Virgin Mother, the Lord grant us salvation and peace. Amen.
' The benediction is a series of prayers asking for blessings from the Blessed Virgin Mary and all the saints, and for salvation and peace through the Virgin Mother.

' [HymnusM Laudes]
' @:Hymnus Laudes
' The hymn for Lauds is indicated with the label "@:Hymnus Laudes."

' [Hymnus Laudes]
' v. O glorious lady! throned on high
' The hymn addresses the Blessed Virgin Mary as the glorious lady, throned on high.
' Above the star-illumined sky;
' The hymn describes Mary's throne as being above the sky, illuminated by stars.
' Thereto ordained, thy bosom lent
' The hymn acknowledges that Mary's body was ordained to nourish the Creator.
' To thy Creator nourishment.
' The hymn emphasizes Mary's role in nourishing the Creator.

' The rest of the hymn is a prayer of praise and thanksgiving to the Blessed Virgin Mary.

' [Versum 2]
' V. Blessed art thou amongst women,
' R. And blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
' The versicle and response acknowledge Mary's blessedness and the blessing of her womb, which bore the fruit of Christ.

' [Ant 2]
' O Blessed Mary, * Mother of God, Virgin for ever, temple of the Lord, sanctuary of the Holy Ghost, thou, without any example before thee, didst make thyself well-pleasing in the sight of our Lord Jesus Christ; pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God.
' The antiphon addresses Mary as the blessed mother of God, a virgin forever, the temple of the Lord, and the sanctuary of the Holy Ghost. The antiphon asks for her intercession for the people, the clergy, and all women vowed to God.

' [Lectio Prima]
' !Sir 24:19-20
' The first reading is from Sirach 24:19-20.
' v. As a plane tree by the water in the streets, I gave a sweet smell like cinnamon. and aromatical balm: I yielded a sweet odour like the best myrrh.
' The reading describes the Blessed Virgin Mary as a fragrant tree, giving off a sweet smell like cinnamon, aromatical balm, and myrrh.

' [Responsory Tertia]
'
