@Commune/C2

[Name]
Commune Martyrum Tempore Paschali

[Rule]
Psalmi Dominica
Antiphonas horas
Psalm5 Vespera=116
Psalm5 Vespera3=115

[Invit]
Let the Saints rejoice in the Lord, * Alleluia.

[Ant1]
Then shall the just stand * with great constancy against those that have afflicted them, alleluia.;;1
;;2
;;3
V. Saints and just, rejoice in the Lord, alleluia.
R. The Lord had chosen you for his inheritance, alleluia.
Behold, how they are numbered * among the children of God, and their lot is among the Saints, alleluia.;;4
;;5
;;6
V. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, alleluia.
R. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
Eternal light * will shine over your saints, O Lord, and the eternity of times, alleluia.;;10
;;14
;;20
V. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, alleluia.
R. They shall obtain joy and gladness, alleluia.

[Lectio1]
Homily of St. Ambrose, Bishop
!Serm. 22
Dearly beloved brethren, it is very meet and right that after the gladness of Easter, which we have celebrated in the Church, we should mingle our own joy with the joy of the holy Martyrs yea, that we should tell of the glory of the Lord's rising again, to them that have been made partakers of the Lord's sufferings. It truly must needs be that they which have been partakers of His sufferings, should be also of His joy. For thus saith the blessed Apostle: "As ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation." (2 Cor. i. 7.) And again "If we suffer, we shall also reign with Him." (2 Tim. ii. 12.) He, therefore, that endureth sorrow for Christ, must needs also have glory with Christ.

[Lectio2]
I say again, let us tell to the holy Martyrs what the grace of the Lord's Passover is let us tell them that, even as He hath opened the bars of His own grave, even so shall their graves also be opened let us tell them that, even as in His dead Body the Veins grew warm and quick again, even so shall their limbs, that now are cold, flush with the heat of an eternal vigor. That power which brought again our Lord from the dead will bring His Martyrs too. For as they have followed Him in His sufferings, so shall they follow Him also in His newness of life. It is written in the Psalms: "Thou hast shown Me the path of life" (xv. 12.) This is said of the Resurrection in the Person of the Saviour, as of Him Who, after that He died, came up again from hell, and began to have that path of life which was not known before.

[Responsory1]
R. His servants, alleluia
* God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.
V. The Lord will judge His people and, His servants,
R. God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio3]
Before that Christ came, that path of life was not known, which none had risen from the dead to tread. But, since the Lord hath risen, it is known, and many have trodden it after the Lord. Touching them, the holy Evangelist saying: "Many bodies of the saints which slept arose with Him, and went into the holy city." (Matth. xxvii. 52, 53.) 4 Wherefore, when the Lord riseth again and saith: "Thou hast shown Me the path of life," we also can now say to Him "Thou hast shown us the path of life." For He hath shown us the path of life, Who hath shown us the way that leadeth unto life. He hath shown me the path of life, Who hath taught me faith, mercy, righteousness, and chastity for these are the ways that lead unto life eternal.

[Responsory2]
R. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them;
* In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
V. For He hath strengthened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From the holy Gospel according to John
!John 15:1-7
In that time Jesus said to his disciples: I am the true vine; and my Father is~
the husbandman. And so on.
_
Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
!Tract 80 on John
Dearly beloved brethren, this passage of the Gospel, wherein the Lord saith that He is the vine, and that His disciples are the branches, is to be taken in that sense wherein it is also said, that He is the Head of the Church, (Eph. v. 23,) and that we are the members of Him (30) Who is the Mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus (1 Tim. ii. 5.) The vine and his branches are of one and the same nature. Therefore, seeing that He was God, of which nature we are not, He was made man, to the end that He might have in Himself this vine, that is, the manhood, whereof we men can be made branches.

[Lectio5]
Why saith He: I am the true vine? As touching this word true, hath He not here regard to that other parable of a vine, the like figure whereto He doth here apply to Himself? (Jer. ii. 21.) Here is He called a vine, not plainly, but in parable,
