[Name]
Dedication of the Church

[Rule]
Psalms and Antiphons for Sundays
Nine Readings
Psalm 5 for Vespers=Psalm 147
Feast of the Lord
Divine Aid

[Ant Vespera]
Holiness becomes Your house, O Lord, forever.;;109
My house shall be called the house of prayer.;;110
This is the Lord's house, stoutly built, well founded upon a sure rock.;;111
The Lord's house is well founded upon a sure rock.;;112
All your walls are of stones most precious, and the towers of Jerusalem shall be built up with jewels.;;147

[Capitulum Vespera]
!Rev 21:2
v. I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a Bride adorned for her husband.
$Deo gratias

[Hymnus Vespera]
v. Thou heavenly, new Jerusalem,
Vision of peace in prophet's dream!
With living stones built up on high,
And rising to yon starry sky;
In bridal pomp thy form is crowned,
With thousand thousand angels round!
_
O bride, betrothed in happy hour,
The Father's glory is thy dower;
The bridegroom's grace is shed on thee
Thou queen all fair eternally;
To Christ allied, thy Prince adored,
Bright shining city of the Lord!
_
Behold with pearls they glittering stand
thy peaceful gates to all expand;
By grace and strength divinely shed
Each mortal thither may be led;
Who, kindled by Christ's love, will dare
All earthly sufferings now to bear.
_
By many a salutary stroke,
By many a weary blow that broke,
Or polished with a workman's skill,
The stones that form that glorious pile,
They all are fitly framed to lie
In their appointed place on high.
_
Fair and well pleasing in thy sight,
Parent most high, enthroned in light,
And for thine only Son most meet,
And thee, all-glorious Paraclete,
To whom praise, power, and glory rise
Forever through the eternal skies.
Amen.

[HymnusM Vespera]
v. Blessed city, heavenly Salem,
vision dear of peace and love,
who of living stones art builded
in the height of heaven above,
and, with angel hosts encircled,
as a bride dost earthward move;
_
from celestial realms descending,
bridal glory round thee shed,
meet for him whose love espoused thee,
to thy Lord shalt thou be led;
all thy streets and all thy bulwarks
of pure gold are fashioned.
_
Bright thy gates of pearl are shining;
they are open evermore;
and by virtue of his merits
thither faithful souls do soar,
who for Christ's dear Name in this world
pain and tribulation bore.
_
Many a blow and biting sculpture
polished well those stones elect,
in their places now compacted
by the heavenly Architect,
who therewith hath willed for ever
that his palace should be decked.
_
Laud and honor to the Father,
laud and honor to the Son,
laud and honor to the Spirit,
ever Three, and ever One,
consubstantial, coeternal,
while unending ages run. 
Amen.

[Versus 1]
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded.
R. Well founded upon a sure rock.

[Ant 1]
The Most High has hallowed His Tabernacle. * For this is the House of God, whereon His Name shall be called, whereof it is written My Name shall be there, saith the Lord.

[Oratio1]
O God, who invisibly containest all things, and yet art pleased for the salvation of men to show forth visible signs of thy power, fill this house with the glory of thine indwelling power and grant that all who gather themselves together to pray in this place, may receive the good comfort of thine help in every tribulation wherein they cry unto thee.
$Per Dominum

[Oratio]
O God, who dost every year bring round unto us again the day whereon this thine holy temple was hallowed, and bringest us again in soundness of body and mind to be present at thine holy worship, graciously hear the supplications of thy people, and grant that whosoever shall come into this thine house to ask good at thine hand, may be rejoiced in the obtaining of all his request.
$Per Dominum

[Invit]
Holiness becometh the house of God. * In her let us worship her Bridegroom, even Christ.

[Ant Matutinum]
Lift up your gates, O ye princes, * and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors.;;23
The Lord shall be my God, * and this stone shall be called God's house.;;45
Moses built an altar * to the Lord God.;;47
V. Holiness becometh thine house, O Lord,
R. For ever.
This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.;;83
Jacob beheld a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and the angels of God descending on it. And he said: Surely this place is holy.;;86
Jacob set up the stone for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.;;87
V. My house.
R. Shall be called the house of prayer.
He that dwelleth in the help of the Most High * shall abide under the shadow of the God of heaven.;;90
The Temple of the Lord is holy. * The same is God's workmanship and God's building.;;95
Blessed be the glory of the Lord * from His holy place. Alleluia.;;98
V. This is the house of God, stoutly builded.
R
