' [Rank] section: 
' This section defines the rank of St. Petri Damiani as "Duplex" with an optional "Duplex" as well. 
' The rank is assigned a value of 3 for the primary "Duplex" rank and 2 for the optional "Duplex". 
' The rank is associated with the feast of St. Petri Damiani, which is vide C4a.

' [RankNewcal] section: 
' This section defines the rank of St. Petri Damiani's feast as "Duplex optional" with a value of 2. 
' The rank is associated with the feast of St. Petri Damiani, which is vide C4a.

' [Name] section: 
' This section defines the name of the person being commemorated, which is Peter.

' [Rule] section: 
' This section defines the rule associated with the feast of St. Petri Damiani, which is vide C4a. 
' The feast has 9 lessons.

' [Oratio] section: 
' This section contains the collect prayer for the feast of St. Petri Damiani. 
' The prayer asks God to help us profit from the teaching and example of St. Petri Damiani.

' [Lectio4] section: 
' This section contains a biography of St. Petri Damiani, including his early life, education, and entry into monastic life. 
' It highlights his devotion to God, his care for the poor, and his commitment to learning and teaching.

' [Lectio5] section: 
' This section continues the biography of St. Petri Damiani, focusing on his time as a monk and his contributions to the monastic community. 
' It notes his appointment as Abbot of the monastery of Avellana and his role in founding new hermitages and promoting the monastic life.

' [Lectio6] section: 
' This section concludes the biography of St. Petri Damiani, highlighting his contributions to the Church as a Cardinal and Bishop of Ostia. 
' It notes his role in supporting the Pope and reforming the Church, as well as his devotion to spreading devout practices.

' [Lectio7] section: 
' This section contains a homily by St. Augustine on the Gospel of Matthew, specifically Matthew 5:13-19. 
' It focuses on the importance of preserving righteousness and the dangers of losing it.

' [Lectio8] section: 
' This section continues the homily by St. Augustine, emphasizing the importance of not losing one's savour of righteousness through fear of persecution.

' [Lectio9] section: 
' This section contains a continuation of the homily by St. Augustine, focusing on the metaphor of light and the importance of enlightening sinners.

' [Lectio94] section: 
' This section provides a summary of the life of St. Petri Damiani, highlighting his birth in Ravenna, education, entry into monastic life, and contributions to the monastic community. 
' It notes his appointment as Abbot of the monastery of Avellana and his role in developing the monastic life. 
' It concludes with his appointment as Cardinal and Bishop of Ostia and his death in Faenza.
