' This is a section of code for a religious calendar or liturgical system.
' It defines a specific day, "Quarta die infra Octavam Nativitatis Beatae Mariae Virginis", 
' which is the fourth day within the octave of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
' The day is classified as "Semiduplex", which is a category of liturgical observance.
' The rank of this day is 2, which indicates its importance in the liturgical calendar.
' The day is associated with the feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

' The "Rule" section defines the liturgical rules for this day.
' The day is associated with the feast of St. Augustine, which is observed on September 8th.
' The rule specifies that there should be 9 readings, and the doxology should be said in the name of Mary.

' "Lectio4" contains a sermon from St. Bernard on the Apocalypse chapter 12.
' The sermon describes a new thing created by the Lord, a woman who will encompass a man.
' This man is identified as Christ, and the woman is described as clothed with the sun.
' The woman is also said to have crowned Christ and received a crown in return.

' "Lectio5" continues the sermon from St. Bernard, describing the woman's crown as having 12 stars.
' The crown is said to be made of starry jewels, and the woman is identified as Mary.

' "Lectio6" describes the starry splendor of Mary's birth.
' She is said to be a daughter of kings, a child of the seed of Abraham, and a Princess of the lineage of David.
' Mary is also said to have been promised from heaven long before her father's birth, and to have been foreshadowed by mysterious wonders.

' "Lectio7" contains a passage from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew.
' It describes the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham.

' "Lectio8" contains a homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers, on the Gospel of Matthew.
' The homily explains the significance of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, and how it shows His relationship with the Kingly and Priestly races.

' The "Commemoratio 2" section is a commemoration for the holy Martyrs Protus and Hyacinth.
' It includes a prayer for their feast day.
