' This is a structured format for defining a religious service or ceremony.
' The format includes various sections, such as Rank, Rule, Antiphons, Oratio,
' Commemoratio, Invit, Antiphons for Matins, Responsories, Lectio, and Gloria.

' The Rank section defines the type of service and its position in the liturgical calendar.
' The current service is a Duplex, which is a more solemn service, and is ranked as a 3.
Rank "S. Martini Episcopi Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4a"

' The Rule section specifies any special rules or regulations for the service.
' In this case, the service follows the rules for C4a.
Rule "vide C4a"

' The Antiphons sections define the antiphons, or short sentences or phrases,
' that are sung or recited before and after the psalms or canticles.
' There are separate sections for Antiphons for Laudes (morning prayer) and Matins (evening prayer).

' The Oratio section defines the prayer to be said during the service.
' The prayer is directed to God and asks for an increase in godliness and healthfulness.
Oratio "Grant, we beseech thee, O Almighty God, that the worshipful Feast of thy blessed~
Confessor and Bishop Martin, may avail us to the increase both of godliness~
toward thee, and healthfulness to our own souls.
$Per Dominum"

' The Commemoratio section defines any additional saints or events to be commemorated during the service.
' In this case, the service commemorates St. Menna, a martyr.
Commemoratio "!Commemoratio S. Menna, Martyr
@Commune/C2:Oratio proper
$Oremus
Grant we beseech thee, almighty God, that we who celebrate the martyrdom of~
blessed Menna, through his intercession be strengthened in thy love.
$Per Dominum"

' The Invit section defines the invitation to prayer.
' The invitation is to praise God for the testimony of St. Martin.
Invit "For the testimony of blessed Martin, * let us praise our God."

' The Antiphons for Matins section defines the antiphons for the evening prayer.
' The antiphons include verses and responses.

' The Responsories section defines the responsories, or musical responses,
' to be sung during the service.
' There are three responsories, each with a verse and a response.

' The Lectio section defines the readings for the service.
' The readings include a lesson from the Holy Gospel according to Luke,
' and a homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.

' The Gloria section defines the Gloria Patri, a doxology that is sung or recited
' at the end of the psalms or canticles.
' The Gloria Patri is a short hymn of praise to the Holy Trinity.
Gloria "Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost,"
